---
lab:
    title: '15 - Azure Sentinel'
    module: 'Module 04 - Manage security operations'
---

# Lab 15 - Azure Sentinel

# Student lab manual

## Lab scenario

You have been asked to create a proof of concept demonstration of Azure Sentinel. Specifically, you want to:

- Start collecting data from Azure Activity and Security Center.
- Add some alerts both built in and custom
- Show how Playbooks can be used to automate a response to an incident.

Lab files:

-  **2020\\Allfiles\\Labs\\LAB_14\\template.json**

## Lab objectives

In this lab, you will complete:

- Exercise 1: Implement Azure Sentinel

## Exercise 1: Implement Azure Sentinel

> For all the resources in this lab, we are using the **East (US)** region. Verify with your instructor this is the region to use for class. 
> 
### Exercise timing: 30 minutes

In this exercise, you will complete:

- Task 1: Enable Azure Sentinel
- Task 2: Connect Azure Activity to Sentinel
- Task 3: Configure Sentinel Analytics
- Task 4: Create a new Playbook in Logic Apps.
- Task 5: Create a custom alert and configure a Playbook as an automated response.
- Task 6 : Invoke an incident
- Task 7 : Remove Resources

To on-board Azure Sentinel, you first need to enable Azure Sentinel, and then connect your data sources. Azure Sentinel comes with a number of connectors for Microsoft solutions, available out of the box and providing real-time integration, including Microsoft Threat Protection solutions, Microsoft 365 sources, including Office 365, Azure AD, Azure ATP, and Microsoft Cloud App Security, and more. In addition, there are built-in connectors to the broader security ecosystem for non-Microsoft solutions. You can also use common event format, Syslog or REST-API to connect your data sources with Azure Sentinel.  

After you connect your data sources, choose from a gallery of expertly created workbooks that surface insights based on your data. These workbooks can be easily customized to your needs.


### Task 1: Enable Azure Sentinel

In this task, you will enable Sentinel on the Log Analytics workspace. 

1. Sign-in to the Azure portal **`https://portal.azure.com/`**.

1. Use the Portal menu and select **All services**. 

1. Search for and select **Azure Sentinel**.

1. Click **Connect workspace**.

1. Choose the Log Analytics workspace that was created earlier. 

1. Click **Add Azure Sentinel**.

	> Default workspaces created by Azure Security Center will not appear in the list; you can't install Azure Sentinel on them. Azure Sentinel can run on workspaces in any GA region of Log Analytics except the China, Germany and Azure Government regions. Data generated by Azure Sentinel (such as incidents, bookmarks, and alert rules, which may contain some customer data sourced from these workspaces) is saved either in West Europe (for workspaces located in Europe) or East US (for all US-based workspaces, as well as any other region except Europe).

### Task 2: Connect Azure Activity to Sentinel

In this task, xx. Azure Sentinel creates connections to services and apps by connecting to the service and forwarding the events and logs to Azure Sentinel. For machines and virtual machines, you can install the Azure Sentinel agent that collects the logs and forwards them to Azure Sentinel. For Firewalls and proxies, Azure Sentinel utilizes a Linux Syslog server. The agent is installed collects the log files and forwards them to Azure Sentinel. 

1. Continue working with Azure Sentinel. 

1. Under **Configuration** select **Data connectors**. 

1. Review the list of available connectors. 

1. Select **Azure Activity**, read about the connector, and then click **Open connector page**.

1. Select **Configure Azure Activity logs**.

1. Click on **your subscription** and click **Connect**.

1. Return to the **Data connectors** page. 

1. Select **Azure Activity**. 

1. You should see a summary of the data in the **Data received** graph, and connectivity status of the data types. 

	> It may take a few minutes for the data to start coming through. 


### Task 3: Configure Sentinel Analytics

In this task, you will configure Sentinel Analytics and create a rule.

1. Continue working with Azure Sentinel. 

1. Under **Configuration** select **Analytics**. 

1. Select the **Rule templates** tab. 

1. Take a minute to look through the types of rules you can create. Notice each rule is associated with a Data Source.

1. Sort by **Data Sources** and select **Suspicious number of resource creation or deployment**. 

	> This rule has Medium severity associated with Azure Activity. 

1. Click **Create Rule**.

	- Accept the defaults and click **Next: Set rule logic**.

	- Accept the defaults and click **Next: Incident settings**.

	- Accept the defaults and click **Next: Automated response**. This is where we can add a playbook(Logic App) to a rule to automate the remediation of an issue.

	- Click **Next: Review**.

1. Click **Create**.

	> You now have an active rule.

#### Task 4: Create a new Playbook in Logic App

In this task, you will create a Playbook in Logic Apps.

1. In the Portal menu (top left) select **Create a resource**.

1. Under **Azure services** select **Create a resource**.

1. From the **New** blade, search Azure Marketplace for **Template deployment (deploy using custom templates)**.

1. Use the list of search results to navigate to the **Template deployment (deploy using custom templates)** blade. 

1. Click **Create**.

1. On the **Custom deployment** blade, select the **Build your own template in the editor**.

1. From the **Edit template** blade, click **Load file** and locate the **22020\Allfiles\Labs\LAB_15\changeincidentseverity.json** file.

	> Take a minute to review the other playbooks that are available - https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Sentinel/tree/master/Playbooks

1. Click **Save**.

1. Complete the template parameters. Take the default value for a setting that is not specified.

	- Resource group: **AZ500LAB131415**

	- Region: **East US**

	- Playbook name: **Change-Incident-Severity**

	- User name: **your global admin account**

1. Select ***I agree to the terms and conditions stated above.*** and then click **Purchase**.

1. Wait for the template to deploy. 

1. Navigate to the resource group. 

1. Select the new Logic app **Change-Incident-Severity**.

1. Click **Edit**.

1. Notice there are four connections and each has a warning. This means it needs to reviewed and if necessary configured.

1. Click on the first **Connections** trigger.

	- Click **Add new**.

	- Ensure your default directory is selected and then click **Sign-in**.

1. Repeat the above step for each of other **Connections**.

1. Ensure there are no warning symbols on any of the steps.

1. **Discard** your changes.

	> We will not be able to produce an incident but we can show how to connect an alert rule with the playbook.

### Task 5 Create a custom alert and configure a Playbook as an automated response.

1. Return to **Azure Sentinel**.

1. Select your workspace.

1. Under **Configuration** select **Analytics**.

1. Click **Create** and then **Scheduled query rule**.

1. Complete the required information. 

	- Name: **Playbook Demo**

	- Tactics: **Initial Access**

1. Click **Next: Set rule logic**.

	- Paste the following rule query. This rule tell us when someone makes a change to Just In Time rules.

     ```
     AzureActivity
     | where ResourceProviderValue == "Microsoft.Security" 
     | where OperationNameValue == "Microsoft.Security/locations/jitNetworkAccessPolicies/delete" 
     ```

	- Under **Query scheduling** change **Run query every** to **5 minutes**

1. Click **Next:Incident Settings**

	- Take the defaults and click **Next:Automated response**

1. Select **Change-Incident-Severity** then click **Next:Review** 

1. Click **Create**

	> You should now see a new Alert called **Playbook Demo**. When this incident occurs it should have a medium level severity

### Task 6 : Invoke an incident


1. Navigate to **Security Center**

1. Under **Advanced cloud defense** select **Just in time VM access**

1. Select **myVM** then click on the **elipsis** and select **Remove** > then **Yes**

1. Navigate to **Monitor** > **Activity Log** You should see an entry showing **Delete JIT Network Access Policies** (You maye need to wait a few minutes)

1. navigate to **All Services** and type in **Azure Sentinel** > Select **Azure Sentinel**

1. Select the **myWorkspaceDemo(yourname)**

1. you should see in the dashboard a few Alerts that have just occured.

1. Click on **Threat Management** > **Incidents**

1. We can see that we have multiple Incidents at Medium severity lebel.

    >Note it can take up to 5 minutes for the incident to come through. If after 5 minutes nothing has occured run the KQL rule from Task 5 in Logs to ensure the activity has come through. If it has not re-enable the JIT rule and delete it again.

1. wait at least 5 minutes until the playbook is invoked. you can check the run status under **Configuration** > **Playbooks**

1. Once a Playbook has been involed it will show the status , Runs, Suvveeded Failed attempts.

1. When the runbook has completed go back to **Incidents** and we can see that our incidents have been escalated to a **High** Severity

1. If we want to manually change the severity or Status of an incident we can simply select the incident and click on **Actions**.

1. Then we can choose the Severity level and the Status of the Incodent.

**Results**: You have now completed this lab.

### Task 7: Remove resources.

1. Open Cloud Shell in Powershell

1.  Remove the resource group by running the following command (When prompted to confirm press Y and press enter):(Use the Resource Group names that werecreated in your lab)
    ```
    Remove-AzResourceGroup -Name "AZ500LAB131415"
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

1. Set Security Center back to a **Free** tier

> **Result**: In this exercise, you removed the resources used in this lab.
